Basic terminal commands 
1. cd - change directory 
2. clear- clears the terminal to make reading pleasant (the session is not closed )
3. ls - lists all folder in the current directory 
4. mkdir - makes new folder in the current folder 
5. touch - makes a new file with the name specified after the cmd 
6. vi - opens the vim editor in terminal and shows the contents of the file 
7. cat - just displays the content of the file (not editable)
8. cp- to copy from one directory to another(requires source and destination parameters) 
9. mv- move from one directory to another(requires source and destination parameters)
10. chmod- used to change the permission of a file 
11. kill - tells the terminal to terminate the signal  
12. env - used to display or modify the environment variables for a command or shell sessions.
13. export - used to set environment variables in the current shell session, making them accessible to the shell and any subprocesses or scripts executed within that session.
14. curl - command to make different types of http requests . eg ; curl https://www.example.com
15. tar(tape archive)- used to create, manipulate, or extract archive files 
16. du - shows the disk usage by a particular file or directory 
17. ping- used to send Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) Echo Request messages to a network host or IP address
18. netstat - used to display information about network connections, routing tables and other network-related information
19. nslookup -for querying DNS servers to obtain information about DNS records 
20. ps-to display information about currently running processes
21. tail- used to display the last few lines of a text file or a stream of data.
22. systemctl - linux specific command to open/close a service 
23. journalctl -linux specific command to see logs of system/specific service 
24. top- monitoring tool to see cpu usage, etc . 


For Further information about the vim terminal , use the command : vimtutor and hit enter in your terminal 
the above tutorial makes even the beginners comfortable with the terminal , i suggest everyone should give it a try 

